the UN agency helping refugees in Gaza
says it will have to Halt its operations
there unless more fuel is delivered it
says its supplies will run out later
today Israel's military is refusing to
allow fuel into Gaza accusing the
militant group Hamas which runs the
territory of hoarding supplies Israel
imposed a blockade on Gaza after hamas's
terrorist attack on October 7th only
limited supplies of food water and
Medicine have been allowed in the fuel
shortage is hindering emergency services
that are already stretched to the
Limit The Blood Stained wreckage of an
ambulance in
Gaza it was destroyed by the blast for
an Israeli air strike but it will serve
one last
purpose we're running out of fuel so we
have been taking petrol and Diesel from
the damaged ambulances and using it to
fuel the ones that are
working but without fuel many fear
Emergency Services could grind to a
[Music]
halt more important than anything else
is fuel so far fuel has not been allowed
into the strip fuel is extremely urgent
because without fuel the trucks
themselves cannot uh move without fuel
the generators cannot produce
electricity for hospitals for bakeries
and for the water desalination
plants only a trickle of Aid has been
allowed into Gaza with Israel
consistently barring fuel concerned that
it will be used in hamas's
operations aside from the air strikes
Israel has imposed a complete blockade
on the Strip following hamas's terrorist
attacks on October the 7th but
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas is
seeking international support for a
ceasefire and the opening of a
humanitarian
Corridor we demand a complete ceasefire
and the opening of permanent corridors
for humanitarian relief the entry of
medicine and food and the provision of
water electricity Fuel and other basic
needs with more and more ambulances
destroyed and fuel running out gaz's
Emergency Services could soon be forced
to shut down at a time when their work
is more important than
ever let's bring in DW's Tanya Kramer
here she's in Jerusalem Tanya the lack
of fuel in Gaza is making an already
desperate humanitarian situation even
worse has anyone suggested ideas on how
fuel could be allowed in exclusively for
humanitarian use without it falling into
the hands of Hamas
militants um not so far because the
Israeli government has refused to allow
fuel in they're saying as you said in
the as we heard in this report also that
um they don't out of the concern that it
would end up in the hands of Hamas they
also claim that Hamas still has reserves
of fuel in uh Gaza now it's hard to tell
also what's going on behind uh the
scenes when it comes to the uh hostage
talks that are held in Gaza because
there were some indication that that
might be also related what is going in
and out uh of Gaza these mediations are
done indirectly by Qatar in Egypt now um
the Rafa crossing the so Crossing that
works um might be then you know used
also as a tool what comes in and out
that has been heavily criticized of
course by human rights and humanitarian
Aid organizations there's also pressure
in Israel by the far right and also by
some of the hostage families not all
that no humanitarian Aid uh should go in
but uh un uh agencies and uh uh other
human uh humanitarian agencies say that
there are mechanisms to allow fuel in so
this is still at a dispute right
now there's huge International pressure
on the Israeli government Tanya to ease
the humanitarian situation in Gaza what
impact is that pressure having on
Israel well so far we don't see uh
anything changing because what we're
seeing is that Aid is slowly trickling
in there only uh dozens of trucks that
have entered uh the Gaza Strip which has
been totally uh closed off from any Aid
entering since the beginning uh of the
war like almost now uh three weeks ago
we saw some trucks going in on Saturday
and Sunday and humanitarian
organizations say this is far from being
enough for the over
2.2 million uh population the civilian
population that is actually um suffering
you know from from all of this so the UN
Refugee agency unra has said they will
run out of fuel and other supplies if
nothing comes in on Wednesday and they
have pressured uh that you know supplies
that there will more trucks coming in of
course we also have to take into
consideration there's a war going on air
strikes have been intensified there are
also some rocket fires still coming out
of Gaza but it's also very difficult for
this Aid them to be distributed to
people in the Gaza Strip and only now we
are hearing also maybe some change also
in the US position but also others
saying there might have to be a need for
a humanitarian pause we're not talking
here about a ceasefire but a pause so
that some more Aid could be going in and
that could also actually then reach uh
the people the civilian population that
is suffering here at the moment the most
Tanya thank you very much that was our
correspondent Tanya Kramer in
Jerusalem United Nations Secretary
General Antonio gutterz is facing heavy
criticism after comments he made at a un
security council meeting in New York the
UN Chief criticized Israel's bombardment
of Gaza and urged an end to what he
described as the collective punishment
of the Palestinian people his remarks
drew a sharp response from
Israel there were heated exchanges at
the UN security council meeting in New
York as the war in Gaza rages on un
Secretary General Antonio guz warned
that the situation was growing more dire
by the hour he repeated his condemnation
of the Hamas Terror attacks and
reiterated his call for humanitarian
ceasefire it is important to also
recognize the attacks by amas did not
happen in a
vacuum the Palestinian people have been
subjected to 56 years of suffocating
occupation but the Grievances of the
Palestinian people cannot justify the
appalling attacks by amas and those
appalling attacks can cannot justify the
collective punishment of the Palestinian
people the Relentless bombardment of
Gaza by Israeli forces the level of
Civilian casualties and the whale
destruction of neighborhoods continue to
mount and are deeply
alarming Israeli foreign minister Eli
Cohen responded angrily to the comments
Secretary General in what world do you
live definitely this is not I will
W he later cancelled his meeting with
guz Israel's ambassador to the UN went a
step further the UN is failing and you
Mr Secretary General have lost all
morality and impartiality I think that
the Secretary General must resign
outside unhq relatives of some of the
hostages held a rally they laid pairs of
shoes to show solidarity with the
hostages
later US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin asked the security Council to
back a new us-led resolution which calls
for humanitarian pauses but not a
ceasefire however Russia said it would
veto anything short of a full ceasefire
so with the UN now in deadlock a
diplomatic solution to the crisis seems
a very distant Prospect
isra